education_id,name,what,why,risk,reward,link1,link2,link3,link4,link5
1,amm,"Traditional digital markets, like the NASDAQ stock exchange (as well as centralized crypto exchanges) work with matching engines built for so-called Limit Order Books: buyers and sellers have to offer up their goods at a certain price in a certain quantity, and wait to be matched with someone else to conduct a trade. This may sound simple in principle, but these orderbooks are a very competitive landscape where professional market makers compete with each other at split second speeds — it has been practically impossible to replicate this model on today's decentralized blockchains such as Ethereum.","Automated Market Makers (AMMs) are mathematical functions that make it possible for people to trade their coins on Decentralized Exchanges (DEX) in a transparent way on the blockchain, without trusted intermediaries. Continuing with the comparison, they are a replacement for the matching engine used on traditional marketplaces, while the order books are replaced with so-called Liquidity Pools — kept in balance by the aforementioned AMM.","Code bugs/exploits (unintended, many new and untested AMM algorithms). Scam coins / rugpulls — the market owner on e.g. coinbase makes sure only ""legit"" coins are available on their platform; not the case on permissionless DEXes...","Exchange without trusted intermediaries. Sometimes the DEX protocols have their own coin which they give out as a reward to their users (as an airdrop or in form of yield for providing liquidity, for example). These coins get their value from governing future changes to the protocol they are connected to, typically.",,,,,
2,divergence loss,"The loss produced by providing tokens as liquidity to an AMM instead of just holding them, if the tokens diverge in price. Divergence loss is the difference between the value of an LP position vs the same account holding fixed amounts of those same tokens.",By providing liquidity an investor hopes to be rewarded with a high APY,"Divergence loss is a risk that one is exposed to when providing liquidity on an AMM. For example if you provide liquidity on a pair and and people sell a high amount of one token, the pools becomes imbalanced and the investor may end up with a worthless token and a lesser amount of the more valuable token pair","Protocols typically give out rewards/yield to counterbalance the risk, which often, but not always makes up for the divergence loss suffered.",,,,,
3,hold,"Starting with Bitcoin, cryptocurrencies have introduced a truly novel form of money (and more) to the world. The thing which unites and makes this asset class special is the technology referred to as blockchain; a set of algorithms and rules that constitute a distributed digital network where each participant (e.g. holder of a cryptocurrency) can be sure that their balances are correct and accessible — without trusting a central intermediary, like a bank. Ethereum, the second biggest cryptocurrency today, proved that blockchains are useful for more than just simple money transfers; it allows people to build decentralized apps, which, in less than a decade, has resulted in an explosion of Decentralized Financial (DeFi) protocols, and tokens of all kind, including NFTs. There are thousands of cryptocurrencies today with many created each day — it is important to understand the purpose and background of a token before buying it.","Bitcoin is the first trustless internet-native currency. Since its blockchain ledger is distributed and open, anyone is free to use it, as well as able to verify that its rules are maintained and noone is spending more than they ought to be able. This is different from ""regular"" online money transactions, made with e.g. Visa or PayPal, where the service provider can potentially shut you out if they feel like it, or are told to by a government. BTC in particular is commonly referred to as digital gold, and many people have used it as shelter from inflation in e.g. Turkey or Venezuela. Other crypto assets can have different use-cases; Ether, for example, is needed to run the various dApps built on the Ethereum network.","As a nascent asset class, cryptocurrencies are infamous for their high volatility. Even though early investors in today's biggest cryptocurrencies have gained generously over time, it is easy for the faint of heart to panic sell when prices are dropping sharply; it's important to understand what we're holding in order to have conviction in times like those. As mentioned, the premise of cryptocurrencies in general is the removal of trusted intermediaries, and distributing the responsibilities which belonged to them in traditional financial systems over the whole network. This is a double-edged sword, however — there is no customer support to revert your transaction if you send your coins to the wrong place.","Cryptocurrencies backed by blockchain technologies have various benefits over fiat money. Some people buy them as investment or saving vehicles, speculating that their value is going to increase in the future. Others may turn to them because traditional banks are unreliable or less convenient than cryptocurrencies. A traditional wire transfer between countries, for example, can take several days or more. Blockchain-native stablecoins allow people to do similar value transactions within a few minutes, without the added risk of price instability.",,,,,
4,layer-two,"Layer 2s can make blockchain networks cheaper, faster, and therefore more useful for more people. Blockchain systems offer great technological benefits for money transfers and record-keeping in general; the main properties most often considered are decentralisation, trust– and permissionlessness, censorship resistance and immutability. These desired properties of decentralised networks come at the cost of limited throughput, however. Even the most prominent networks of today, Bitcoin and Ethereum are only able to handle a fairly limited amount of transactions in a given time period; an average BTC transfer takes about 10 minutes, and some interactions with Ethereum dApps can cost hundreds of dollars in gas fees during congested. times. Scaling solutions to blockchains are an advanced topic with much ongoing research and development. The technical descriptions and differences between each is beyond the scope of this explainer, but they are well worth researching for the curious. For Bitcoin, the most notable L2 solution is Lightning Network. Ethereum has numerous Layer 2 implementations, with the two main approaches being Optimistic Rollups and Zero-Knowledge Rollups.","Newer blockchain networks may have somewhat better performance in some aspects, but ultimately all of them suffer from the above tradeoff between speed/accessibility and security. Layer 2 refers to solutions to this problem that scale up networks by building a secondary protocol that inherits the security guarantees of the base layer.","As with any novel software or technology, it is not without its dangers. Getting funds from an L1 base layer to an L2 typically involves a so-called bridging process; this transaction can be costly and take some time, depending on the particular implementation. It is advisable to test with a small transaction first, to make sure the software works in the expected way, and to familiarise ourselves with the process, as it can sometimes be unclear.","The main benefit of using Layer 2s is lower fees and/or improved speed. On top of this, early adapters of new scaling networks can be rewarded by receiving tokens for their bravery from network and app developers, as a bonus.",,,,,
5,lending,"The simple acts of Lending and Borrowing are prominent financial primitives that form the basis of many more complex financial products. Just as there are DEXes operated by Automated Market Makers that allow people to swap their coins seamlessly with each other, there are numerous lending platforms in DeFi.","As a lender, you can provide liquidity (deposit coins to borrow) to the protocol in order to earn interest on your deposits from borrowers, and take out a loan in the form of some other coin using your deposits as collateral","When borrowing coins against deposited collateral, it is important to keep an eye on our health ratio; if the value of our collateral drops too much in proportion to our loan, the system may forcibly liquidate our funds lest we deposit more or pay back what we have borrowed. While the interest rates on deposits and borrows are decided algorithmically in a transparent manner, they typically are not stable but rather fluctuate depending on supply and demand. In some cases, you may not be able to retreive your deposit in full — if a coin is over-borrowed relative the liquidity deposited on the platform, for example. It is important to read the documentation of the platform we intend to use, as the risks involved can vary greatly depending on the exact implementation.","Lending protocols in DeFi let people take out loans from each other seamlessly and transparently; the interest rates and risk parameters are decided by the algorithms coded into the decentralised applications — like a bank or a pawn shop, but friendlier. DeFi protocols often reward their users (borrowers and lenders both, in this case) with native tokens, typically used to govern future changes to the protocol. ",,,,,
6,leverage,"Broadly speaking, leverage in finance refers to using borrowed funds to purchase something, with the expectation that the profits on the purchase exceed the borrowing costs. Leverage can come in various forms: financial derivatives like futures and options, mortgages for private persons. There are numerous platforms that give people access to leverage, both centralised and decentralised.","As the name suggests, leverage amplifies the returns on a purchase. If a leveraged investment goes well, the gains are multiplied. However, if it does not go well, the same is true for losses.","Cryptocurrencies are notorius for their volatility as they are. This is partially because of the prevalence of leverage in crypto markets; levered speculators often end up forcibly liquidating their positions on relatively small price moves, further adding to the momentum.","Besides multiplying gains, leverage on crypto exchanges can be used to alleviate counterparty risk. By depositing only a part of our funds and placing a leveraged bet on a coin, we can limit the risk of losing all our money if the exchange goes down, for example.",,,,,
7,provide liquidity,"Liquidity is basically the abundance of a coin in a market. DEXes typically rely on liquidity pools, managed by AMMs, as opposed to the Limit Order Book system prevalent in centralized digital exchanges where professional market makers sell and buy from people with proprietary algorithms.","If you create your own coin, you need to have a market for it so people can trade it, and it's neither cheap or easy to get listed on a CEX.","If the coins' prices change, _Divergence Loss_ can occur. This is much less likely when LPing stablecoins, where one can be fairly certain they will stay the same price (eg USDT and USDc).","A typical technique for creators of coins (or protocols) is to incentivise people to provide liquidity on Decentralised Exchanges for their coins – often referred to as Liquidity Mining. In short, people who provide liquidity (and stake the tokens that prove this) get rewarded by receiving more tokens over time, also known as Yield Farming.",,,,,
8,stake,"Staking crypto essentially means locking it up for future rewards — much like a savings account. The complexity of staking one's crypto, as well as the risks and rewards can vary depending on the coin and the place where it is staked.Bitcoin's blockchain relies on a consensus mechanism called Proof of Work, where the validity of the network is maintained by having people use their computers for solving math problems, roughly speaking. Proof of Stake is an alternative consensus mechanism that aims to alleviate the computational burden from a blockchain network via having people put their coins on the line instead. PoS networks include Solana, Avalanche and ETH2.0, amongst others. Setting up a Proof of Stake client can be quite technical and does not fit in the scope of this explainer. However, staking in the broader sense has been widely utilized by DeFi apps for various purposes, in which case it is as easy as clicking a button and paying some fees; like a savings account in the bank, but more transparent!","Concentrating on the DeFi context, staking is a way for people to ""signal their trust/allegiance"" to a protocol. Some apps require people to lock up their tokens to partake in governance about future changes to the protocol.","When you stake your coins, you generally lock them in a smart contract, or maybe in a staking pool service offered by some Centralized Exchanges. In either case, you temporarily give up custody of your coins; even if you can withdraw with the click of a button (and paying some fees), your staked funds could get drained if a vulnerability in the code is exploited.","DEXes often give their users extra rewards for locking up their LP tokens, in order to incentivise people to provide liquidity on their platform — like different banks competing for people to use their services, but more transparent!",,,,,
9,insurance,"Insurance is a way for people to protect themselves from potential risks. You buy insurance from an insurance company  for some fee, and if an accident occurs, the company compensates you. Insurance companies are essentially a way for people to socialise their risks (e.g. illness, by pooling their money together. In DeFi, just as there are decentralised protocols built for people to lend out and/or exchange their tokens, there are  insurance protocols where one can buy insurance against accidents on the blockchain — or put their funds in the insurance pools to cover others from losses in exchange for rewards.","Insurance is still a nascent and fairly niche sector in crypto. DeFi insurance products typically give cover for smart  contract failures (exploited bugs). While this is certainly a considerable risk when using DeFi in general, the cost of buying DeFi insurance on top of (for example) a DeFi loan is simply not worth the extra work for many people. As the industry evolves, we may see a broader use of insurance contracts issued on blockchains.","Ironically, decentralised insurance applications may be exploitable themselves.","Insurance, but on the blockchain.",,,,,
10,options,"An option is a financial contract that give its buyer the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell an underlying asset for a specific price (called _strike price_) on (or possibly before) a specific time. The most widely used exchange for trading crypto options is Deribit. They offer European style options for Bitcoin and Ethereum. There are also several DeFi protocols that allow people to buy or sell options of smaller cryptocurrencies, as well as protocols that automatically execute various options strategies in order to generate yield on people's deposits.","Options are complex financial instruments with many potential uses and strategies to trade. A Call option allows its owner to buy a cryptocurrency at the strike price on the date of its expiry. Buyers of Call options are betting that the price will go up, roughly speaking. A Put option, on the other hand, allows its owner to sell at the strike price. Buyers of Put options are betting that the price will go down.","Since exercising options at expiry is optional, buying options has limited downside; we cannot lose more money than what we paid for purchasing the contracts, even if they end up valueless at expiry — unlike futures, where one may be forced to liquidate their entire margin account. Nonetheless, options are notoriously complex instruments. It is advisable to learn more about them than what fits in the scope of this page before jumping into trading them, lest we are parted from our money by smarter traders.","Similarly to futures, options can be used to speculate on cryptocurrencies with leverage, or to hedge exposure. Besides simply buying call or put options, traders can also make more sophisticated bets on the price (or volatility) of cryptocurrencies by combining buying and selling contracts at various strike prices and expiry dates.",,,,,
